[Music]
how's your day been going so far it's
been going good it's always busy here
yeah yeah very good well I'm joined
right now by Anna Donnellan who's the
well it's you basically run like skins
and events right yeah skins and events
on League so what's the actual title I'm
a product manager but then like we're
all product managers so we produce their
own skins and events Liga legends you
just run that whole sort of section of
Lee legends yeah
so all the content that we make the
events that we do all that stuff is kind
of under one umbrella
how long have you been at write three
years now just hit three years actually
all right congratulations thank you I
went very fast did you expect when you
join that you'd be here for that long I
mean I didn't really know how long I was
gonna be here my road to riot was
friends who worked here I was kind of
tapped out on a video game development
was like looking for something
completely different and then people I
knew worked here were like no they do it
different here and I was like okay I'll
give it a shot now I'm here three years
okay so you didn't you've been doing
video game stuff before this yeah for
half of my life actually oh really okay
so where we're at so I started doing the
kids games like kids educational
software really early in my career moved
over to THQ first stint then moved to a
dev studio in Seattle then ended up at
Treyarch for about ten years and that's
probably the most significant chunk of
time I spent it at one place doing one
thing Trek for ten yeah yeah so they I
know they do call of duty were you
working on Call of Duty that whole time
yeah I started out working on spider-man
when they were still doing the
spider-man franchise but then they
decided to shift completely into the
Call of Duty business and so I moved on
to Call of Duty at that time yeah well
you said so you left
Activision looking for something new
League of Legends I think is wildly
different than Call of Duty yeah from a
game perspective you couldn't really get
more different and even just the way
that like league isn't shipping like a
game once a year essentially or once
every other year like in a sense of
shipping something every couple of weeks
yeah live service production is
incredibly different I don't really get
a break yeah we're we're in every patch
skins and events are basically every
patch at this point so every two weeks
something's going out the door so when
you people hear skins
obviously they know like this is a new
champions get hits and that's directly
your team that's not doing that yes and
then events would that be like the
Bilgewater stuff yeah like the one we
did with Bilgewater we did star Guardian
project Snowdown would be considered an
event so basically anytime that we try
to host a party in league where there's
multiple things to engage with under one
kind of like thematic blanket that's
pretty much being done by our team cool
now I so I'll tell you a little about
myself I when I was coming out of
college really wanted to work in the
gaming industry and I felt like there
was okay I'm like I can't do arts I
don't know how to program like I don't
think I could design and I had no idea
at the time that like project managers
and producers existed maybe you can
explain because I'm sure a lot of people
watching this they they hear project
matters sound so vague like what even
you just manage this but what does what
does the project manager producer - yeah
so I was like just like you like I can't
make things like if you ever saw me draw
something you'd be very sad for me yeah
same here right like it's just not my
it's not my thing
I think I have a creative edge and so I
was interested in anything to do with
like a creative field and I played games
my whole life so I was like oh that's a
job and and I didn't think I would get a
job so I was I was kind of like you I
started out answering phones and then
this woman who was an executive producer
took me under her wing and kind of
introduced me to the world of production
and there's a lot of different different
Game Studios do it a little bit
differently but for the most part
someone needs to make sure that the
teams are all working effectively
someone needs to make sure that we're
making the right decisions strategically
for the game and for our players and so
a lot of my job is just paying attention
to how players are embracing the content
we're making how engagement in the game
is doing what choices we can make I have
like a whole strategic team that I work
with on that and then just making sure
that the team is staffed well and happy
and comfortable with the choices that
are making as well so when when you
describe it that way I kind of get it
but also it sounds a little bit like
you're like the big boss you've got your
feet up on the table and like we need
more Teemo skins I mean please make I
mean it's it's kind of that but I don't
think I mean I've definitely worked at
places where it is more like that I
think it riot we try to not have it be
exactly like that I'm my job is
basically just making sure that the
opportunities that are out there we we
know how to take advantage of them and
why to take advantage of them and do
them in a way that delight players and
delighting players is key and so we have
a lot of inputs and I like to while the
team definitely does engage with our
player community I like to keep them
pretty focused on the work so a lot of
my job is just storytelling honestly
pulling in a bunch of data pulling in a
bunch of player sentiment pulling in
things like hey who hasn't had a skin in
a while or what thematic is really hot
and like pop culture right now that we
should be paying attention to and what
movies do our players watch and all
those sorts of things and then kind of
telling a narrative to our teams to
inspire them to make really good choices
when you say like telling a story it's
kind of it's hard to understand what
that looks like and maybe you can give
me an example yeah so like have you ever
had to like inspire someone to do
something that maybe their head wasn't
like totally they're on everything every
time I work with my producer Broden is
so I mean that's I mean a lot of it is
that so I'm trying to think of a of a
more recent example so like we make
skins for a lot of different champions a
champion pool in league for example has
gotten really even since I've been here
it's increased significantly and our
ability to get every champion to skin
every year gets harder and harder the
more champions we put into the game so
deciding which champions should get
skins every year is like a pretty hot
topic most of the time and especially
with our players we just put out
aurelion sol's new skin just hit PvE and
it was like a big hooray moment for us
because players have been wanting it
since he came out and then it's
immediately in the comments it's like
well then where's Camille and where's
Claude and it's like he's just never
ending and then I have to go explain to
the team why not only do we need to make
a clad skin this year but we also need
to make a nash skin this year and
they're like but ash has so many skins
and so I have to tell the team it's it's
a true narrative it's not a false or
fictional narrative but a narrative to
get them to really understand the
players perspective the company's
perspective and why we think certain
choices are the right ones but I have to
do it in a way that motivates them and
inspires them because they're artists
and they're passionate about their work
and they just want to make things that
make players light up
but there are better choices than others
and helping navigate them through that
is important but if I do it into
corporate II or clinical way then I look
at a touch
I don't read like a player anymore and
so it's a lot of a balancing act yeah
you can't go in and say the data says
that Ash needs another skin because
people keep buying a skins so let's make
another ash right because that's cold
and it's only one input and we have a
lot of different inputs I kind of talk
about them like lenses I have all these
lenses that I make decisions through and
I choose what like magnitude I'm going
to apply to each lens and then kind of
look through all those lenses and hope
that the decision is like on the other
side of that so do you do you tell the
story say we need to make X skin or
we're gonna do this type of event and
then you just move on like it all just
happens or because I imagine the
notification yes take off that's done
that job yeah it's like it's like it's
like 360 process so we have like
pre-production time when we're trying to
make choices we have production time
when we're making sure that the actual
execution is hitting our bar that the
things that we set out to do in the
goals we set out to accomplish are going
to be accomplished through the products
we're making and some skins can take a
really short amount of time to take not
short but like shorter and then other
skins if they're part of a really big
event or if they're like a legendary
skin they take a significant amount of
time so there are a lot of moments along
that path where it can start to veer
down roads that are kind of misaligned
to where we thought we were headed
sometimes that's good sometimes it's
like let's scooch back over to where we
said we were going to go so there's that
kind of upkeep throughout and then
there's post while the team moves on to
whatever's next in their in their
calendar myself other product managers
we're just like evaluating all of the
data or looking at all of our various
social channels and trying to see like
okay how do we do how do we do against
those goals and in the meantime teams
working on next thing so it's just like
a cycle yeah what how long does it take
to make these skins because you said
like shorter or longer yeah some people
will say this at like three weeks or
three years I think it's three weeks
nothing is three years
nothing is three years or the longest
skins
you know technically Ultimates would
would take the most amount of time Lux
elementalists Lux was a almost
nine-month endeavor because of all of
her forms and new tech that was that was
a big big skin execution but for the
most part I think we're about in like
this 3 ish week window for most of our
most of our skin executions we've gotten
a lot faster so that's exciting so does
that mean that whenever a skin hits the
PBE that three weeks before you guys
were in the meeting room saying like we
need like aurelion sol head today right
as we film this right does that mean
that three weeks ago you guys were like
we should make an umbrella insole skin I
think it depends on the skin I think
sometimes yes sometimes we have concepts
we've had around for a while and now
it's time for that champion to get a
skin so it's like oh cool now we can
make that concept so we can kind of hit
the ground running other times it's we
have a champion that needs a skin but we
don't have a concept ready and we're not
sure what yet so then there's that kind
of like it takes a little bit longer to
get it off the ground the concept
artists to spend more time thinking
about you know what would make sense for
this for this champ what do they already
have because you know you don't want to
make another skin for a champion who has
almost the exact same skin in their
catalog so it's like okay we have to
make a lot of choices there but then
sometimes we want to do big big big
executions and when we do those you
usually CST like a video that comes out
or some really beautiful CG or event
execution and to do that we actually
need to front-load that work to unblock
other teams who are dependent on those
things getting locked down and those
things feel like they go on forever and
when you say unblocked I know that's
like a producer term what is that well
okay so like the whole pipeline or I
guess that's another pretty sore yeah
right it's a there's like you know
there's a process and things get handed
off and so you know concept has to kind
of be locked in before like a 3d modeler
for example can start to actually build
those models there's a little bit of
crossover while they work together in
the transition but you know we have to
do a skeleton or a rig before the
animators can start working so there's
kind of like a domino kind of like you
know before and after everyone just kind
of hands the work off and there's people
all the way through that pipe so if
you're working for example like on a sea
gee and you're gonna do this big like
high detail execution on our champion
skin and we don't have a final concept
on what that skins gonna be you really
there's not a lot you can do because as
soon as you start working again
something that could change on something
that's that like high resolution and
high fidelity you're basically starting
to waste time and you're throwing a
bunch of stuff away every time a pivot
happens yeah so when we do those that's
why you know we do them we're very
specific about when we do them and when
we do them we make them a really big
deal because there's there's so much
involved in that so the product manager
kind of sits in the middle because an
artist is so different than maybe like a
programmer which so different than the
person who's maybe concepting something
like there's so many different elements
I'm guessing it sounds like the project
manager producer kind of sits in the
middle and like interconnects all that
stuff yeah there's a lot of that so
there's a couple of different producer
type roles that riot so like you know I
definitely have a a partner that works
with me who's more focused on execution
and making sure that all those people
are talking and things are hitting
deadlines and stuff like that and then
me I'm I'm well I well I definitely I'm
like captain of the of the team I'm also
like significantly more focused on on
the strategy and on the player and and
where were and where we're headed from a
production standpoint so listening an
example that when you say you're focused
on the player like what where where
would that come into play so okay I'm
pretty much on social channels daily
getting temperature checks and trying to
look for trends and try to figure out
like what are what are players asking
for the most what choices have been made
recently that really upset them what
what choices did we make that we felt
really good about that upset them
because those are like those are like
big moments for us when we're like
nailed it and then like as soon as we
get it on PBE players are like what is
this and you're like
six months for the work we thought we
crush that's what it is
so those moments are hard and so I try
to keep myself looking at player
sentiment across a number of different
channels we bring players in to talk
about our stuff and really trying to
make sure I always kind of have a solid
understanding of what of what they're
looking for and what they want so the
player is with me every single day in my
job like every single day whether that's
from comments in social media or just
feeling like I am also a player so like
I have a certain like thing that I would
want out of a game I try to bring the
players point of view into into every
conversation which is tricky right
because we're all so business and there
are a lot of companies that struggle to
bring the player and with them too much
because then maybe you're leaving some
business value on the table what I love
here is that I don't really have to do
that because when we say we're player
focus like we legit mean that we are
player focused so I can bring the player
into a room and make maybe a business
value negative decision sometimes in
order to do something that's better for
players and that's that's really
exciting but then also we do those
things and sometimes they don't land
quite so well and then that's somewhat
devastating but that's also the job so
sort of the way you described yourself
in the beginning like trying to look for
the trends but also like the opinions
that kind of makes me think of like a
market analyst and like a fashion
designer like you're like what's on
trend the season it is a bit like anime
seems to be popular these days Starfire
like let's curl up with Starfire skins
it must be kind of an interesting thing
where you're trying to find like what
are the popular tropes and I think I'm
not totally and then sometimes it's just
validation like sometimes the team is
really excited about a thing because of
like what they're watching or what
they're into or what they saw at Anime
Expo or what you know whatever whatever
is like in their world and then they
bring it in to us and they get really
hyped and they pitch things and we get
really hyped but then it's like okay is
that is that you or is that
representative because we're a global
game and we have a huge huge audience
across the entire world so something
that's like hyper dope in North America
might not be hyper dope in Korea or
China or
versa so really having to understand
like will this land globally sometimes
we just make choices where that doesn't
matter and we're okay and we kind of
know that you know how that does is
gonna be limited and then sometimes
we'll just really surprised that things
land really well everywhere like we go
into it saying okay this is gonna be a
North American thing
or this is going to be straight up for
the China player who will love this and
then and then everybody loves them and
those are those are pretty cool moments
do your favorite champion yes I play a
lot of ash okay I actually started
playing a bit more jinx but I do play a
lot of it so I love I love Li you see
ash because my next question was going
to be about you know you if you are a
player yourself and you're printing this
position where you get to decide like
skins and a best I just make skins for
ass well it's great because at the start
the interview before I even ask you this
you said I have to convince some why we
need to do a clutch skin this year but
also maybe an ash skin
specifically calling her ash so it's a
funny situation right where you you you
have the ability as a player yourself to
decide like oh I would jinx it would be
great if there was a new jinx Kurt well
it's really funny because like I before
before I came into the room I we just
put some skins on to PBE this morning
and ash is one of them and ash has this
project skin that I play every game like
I am obsessed with that skin I feel like
the team didn't make it for me but I
feel like they made it for me it's so
it's so Who I am and what I love and
like the kind of tropes that I love and
it's such a great skin for her and then
we made championship not too long after
that because that was that that was the
champion selected to be our world skin
for that year it wasn't like ash needs
another skin it was more like who's the
right champ to represent the you know
eSports scene for that year so she got
another one and now she's getting one
this year and I'm always kind of like I
don't know like maybe a little insecure
that like maybe players are out there
going well she plays Ashe and they just
like an Ashkan every year and it's just
legit not how it works but I still like
it self-conscious that like players
rather going up another ash-sham just be
still meaning ash it's like not true or
people in the company right right they
might know
no they I don't know if you participate
I know there's like the internal right
Rumble tournament yeah if the head of
personalization is all about finish yeah
and then rockin my newest skin line yeah
must be an interesting situation what
what are the moments because you say
you're always out there on the forums
and on the boards and social media
etcetera and I myself spent a lot of
time on those places
I bet and there are a lot of critical
people there are a lot yeah and they
don't miss words we've hired a lot of
them Oh work here so so obviously not
just are you getting that feedback from
online but also maybe internally
definitely people don't tend to say
things like you know Ashkan just doesn't
do it for me they say things like wow
this Ashkan is and it must be hard
to read that stuff not only as an ash
main yourself but also as you're working
so intimately with like the people on
your team who are like pouring passion
into this and then somebody comes by and
says oh this is crap you know after
looking at it for 10 seconds because
they click the link and then click back
yes that is that is one of the hardest
parts of the job like like seriously
there's no there's really no way to kind
of you know soften it like for me I take
things I take things personally because
I really care about the work we're doing
I don't I don't get incentivized like
through my compensation or anything for
things to do better than other things
like everything is equal in my job so
I'm incentivized purely by delighting
players we're a free-to-play game our
business runs off of people monetizing
and buying things in a free-to-play game
so our take our work personally for a
number of reasons but mostly because if
you were to see the team as they work on
these things it's not like an assembly
line it's not like a factory like these
are people who come in every day excited
to get something into players hands and
that's not just skins that's everyone
who works at riot and so when you do it
and then you it's okay if you didn't
like it like honestly like we expect
that we don't expect everything to be
perfect we don't expect everything to
land really well we
know that we're gonna get it wrong we
learned so much from those moments that
I actually think it benefits us to miss
every now and then because then we can
get it better next time but that that
the tone and the harshness it's like
I've not I've tried have a thick skin
but I have not yet gotten used to it and
really I'm more concerned about people
on our on our team because they spend
more time in the guts you know like I'm
in the decision-making there and the
like they're in the life they put they
put themselves into everything and so
when it's like yeah that thing or
what the hell are they thinking with
that or did they actually think someone
would want this it's like yeah weird
sorry
sort of pivoting on the other ends there
are moments I'm sure where something
something feels like a Grand Slam
right like it comes out people just get
so excited about it right it is it is
hilarious to me because up sometimes I
feel like this community is filled with
people who either love everything or
hate everything and those moments where
somebody really it gets excited about
something must feel particularly good
for you is there are there any moments
like that that come to mind yeah I think
so when we put out when we put out star
guardian Lux you know we could tell the
players liked it that was just before I
started it riot and I remember that skin
coming out and it seemed like everyone
really enjoyed that thematic and you
know we were we were having a lot of
internal debates as to whether or not we
should double down on that skin line or
not we weren't sure if it was like Miche
anime or if it was like broadly resonant
and you know if you're not an anime fan
do those skins tilt you like that was
actually a concern right that like we
would not just make something that you
didn't want to buy we would make
something that was like straight up
making angry when it's in-game with you
because we have to think about that too
we don't just think about the person
buying the skin we have to think about
the nine folks in game with that skin
and how their game has been impacted by
choices we've made so every game is
impacted by decisions we make on skins
team and with that skin line it was like
it was it was that and project but start
are you in particular because I mean we
were pretty confident sci-fi would land
but that that style of anime
doing as well as it did in the player
kind of like community and the cosplay
and just there was so much energy around
it that I think there was a certain
amount of validation internally but this
thing we cared about was also beloved by
our players and then we saw a lot of
people who are like I don't even like
anime I'm ok with this and like that's
like the highest form of like compliment
from our player base as if they're like
I wouldn't buy it but I'm cool with it
I'm like yeah that felt good glad you
brought it a certain thing because it
said we spent so much time talking about
skins but you also handle events and
there was a whole event and game-mode
and everything else that went along with
it yeah
when like maybe you can talk to me a
little bit about that because you know
it must be interesting you see like a
cool skin light and you're like do we do
an event with it or is it a situation
where people want to do an event and
then you come up with the skin like how
does that whole process work yeah so I
think like what was star guardian it was
you know we will we'll send out one skin
and a theme that we're kind of testing
the waters on and see how it goes
star Guardian was one of those project
was one of those because Yasuo got his
project skin before our big project
beats so we'll send one out and kind of
see like hey how does it land and if we
see it land like significantly over our
expectations then we're like okay let's
go bigger second year of starred ardian
was just a skin set it was a really dope
skin set it was a lot of skins jinkx got
her legendary which was also highly
contentious because jinx is a magical
girl was really hard right it was like
how do you keep the jinx cuz when I play
jinx I play drinks for a reason and I
don't want to lose the jinx as a magical
girl who is she and so that was a huge
challenge those skins were incredibly
popular as well when we decided we
wanted to kind of invest a little bit
deeper in events which really has only
been probably for about like a little
over a year at this point where we're
like let's just do them a lot more
frequently we realize that we have the
ability with these all fantasies that
we're creating through our skin lines to
create a more kind of holistic
experience for players but it's a lot of
work you have a lot of different teams
who have to sync their calendars they
all have to ship at the same time
the maps and modes team has to ship at
the same time Publishing has a lot more
that they have to do in terms of like
getting you know big like cinematics or
whatever out to players like there's
just a lot more that goes into it so we
have to be really selective and we've
looked at highly resonant skin lines and
themes as the ones to to apply to those
things there are other times to where
you guys have done an event more as a
sort of creative or lore endeavor right
like the Bilgewater events remind what
what dictates that because I I can see
the logic the natural logic in line of
why you'd end up at like a star Guardian
event to promote like what has been a
successful student skin line what is it
is it your team that decides like let's
do something around Bilgewater or is it
like a creative team that's like hey we
want to flesh out the world a little bit
more and like maybe build water it's
like a cool way to do something yeah so
like there used to be like an event team
and it was that team shipped builds
water from three years ago together and
they made that whole event a lot of a
lot of rioters like across all of riot
worked on that event and that was going
to be and it was a very kind of cannon
lore narrative driven event and it was
great and then those are they're
exceptionally costly to make honestly
and they require a lot of organization
more so than than the more recent events
have because the beauty of the events
that we've been doing over the last year
and a half is like all those teams are
housed under one umbrella like we can
all kind of dictate how we work and we
can all get excited and jazzed about a
thing together and we can land that
thing together and so that's been great
and it helped us kind of like rebuild
muscles around how to do simultaneous
production because you know we're not
all synced up here because we ship every
two weeks everyone is kind of on I don't
want to say their own schedule certain
efforts are definitely delivered
together but there are definitely things
that are kind of like teams are on their
own to deliver to players when they're
ready and this requires a lot of like
organization so we contained it within
the all fantasy lines but then we
realize like when we did it with worlds
for example that was partnering with our
eSports team which was which was
different and we were like okay let's
let's try to go out
side of our our like alt fantasy sphere
and do something a little bit bigger
with another team and see if we can make
that work and last year's worlds was
probably one of the bigger events that
we've we've done in game in game event
and that was really exciting so then it
was like okay we've got champions that
come out would players be excited to
welcome a new champion into League of
Legends through an event and it was kind
of going back to Cannon and lore but
using the team that had learned how to
work really really well together and
deliver really well together instead of
asking a bunch of people who work very
differently to try to to work the same
and so it was really effective so I
wouldn't be surprised if we do more
things like that in the future and have
more of a mix across the board so
sometimes this is like an event that's
more about skin line sometimes an
eSports event or maybe sometimes it's
something that is more about the lore
yeah yeah I'm really excited to see like
like we can't I can't get a good read on
like which ones players are enjoying
most right now I'm like and I'm
definitely keeping an eye on it I think
we're gonna do all of it because I think
all of its fun and we put a little bit
more diverse in our game and keeps it
fresh and fun and exciting but I can't
really tell which ones they appreciate I
think that I think the lore heads love
like the cannon beads I think we can
have there's like more flexibility in
the alt Fantasy is because we try to
tell very specific stories in our in our
lore and you know when I've got magical
girls I can pretty much we can pretty
much go wherever we want to go with that
so you know the last thing I would ask
you because they're especially kind of
coming off that if people are are who
are interested in games they want to
work in the game industry and especially
with your your role like a project
manager roller or more producer role you
know if if you are an artist you can go
out there and make art if you are a
designer you can try to come up with
some games that you've designed how what
would you say to people who want to get
a job doing project management producer
how should they go about that I there
are a bunch of different kind of avenues
you can go down I think any any kind of
like support job where like you know I
think about like QA was like a lot of
product managers and producers kind of
come out of
it depends honestly if you're looking to
be more on like the strategic side you
could definitely look down like the data
path and like data analysis and research
and those types of fields if you are
more the like organizational kind of
person you there's a lot and there's a
lot of classes out there for different
types of workflows and things like that
but in terms of like entry-level jobs to
get your foot in the door if you want to
do a job like mine I was answering
phones honestly and I think that talking
to your customer and having to take in
information and help them feel better
about the product you're making is what
got me to where I am and and when I
started that job I had no idea that this
was going to be where I ended up but I
do think I have a certain amount of
empathy for our player we don't even
call them customers here which is
gorgeous
I have a certain empathy for our players
because I have been so frontline with
them and have really gotten to
understand their pain and and what
they're looking for and what they need
to feel good about about their choices
so I think any role that lets you really
understand your player is is are the
ones that you want to you want to go to
hey thank you so much first thing don't
salute Lee it was great thank you
you